# Meeting 2023-10-23

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Daniel
- Adi
- Moritz
- Christoph N.
- Chris K.
- Jannis (Protocol done)
- Felix

## Buddies

- Moritz & Chris K.
- Jannis & Christoph N.
- Adi & Daniel

## Agenda

- 09:00 permaculture principles
- Felix finished!
- Protocol: Chris K.
- praise:
  - great questions by everyone
  - excellent reviews by Christoph
- improving communication: issues describing what you want to do
- empty plant menus:
  - Do we wanna inform the user when he has no seeds, as we do now (in prod)?
  - Do we wanna offer him the possibility, via some action link, to go directly to the seeds page to create some, as we do now (in prod)?
- event handling:
  - Where to bind keylisteners (especially for konva layers)?
  - Should we type available keys and actions (enums?, constants?)?
  - Do we want to use https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-hotkeys-hook?
- PermaplanT 0.3.5
  - fix planting of seeds
  - usability improvements (multi-select, sizes of plants)
- [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- outlook

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 27.10.2023**:

- submit a (short) text in submissions
- buddy talk
- Get current issues, PRs and use cases (UC) [done](../usecases/README.md)
- Create/update issues/tests (behavior driven) as needed for future tasks
- Update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- Do reviews of PRs in main repo and submissions

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 27.10.2023**:

- Felix: fertig
- Jannis: finish NC chat+online status, milestone plan, Dockerfile neues Rust, 2 first PermaplanT issues
- Moritz: issue seeds on the map, base layer auto?
- Daniel: keybinding+timeline decisions/concept, notes, refactoring
- Christoph: UC merge, usability guidelines, multi-select UC
- Adi: CI fix, E2E merge: seeds tests, exceptions, concurrency
- Chris: scraper fertig, plants hierarchy+relations

## Meeting Notes
