# Meeting 2023-05-16

_Protocolled by: Felix_

## Attendees

- Gabriel (Protocol)
- Moritz (Protocol)
- Lukas (Protocol)
- Samuel (Protocol)
- Paul (Protocol)
- Felix
- Markus
- Yvonne

Cannot attend:

- Thorben (Protocol)
- Giancarlo
- Ramzan

## Buddies

- Giancarlo & Moritz
- Lukas & Gabriel & Felix
- Ramzan & Thorben
- Samuel & Paul

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **12.5.2023** (KW19):

- https://nextcloud.markus-raab.org/nextcloud/index.php/apps/polls/vote/17
- talk to (non-)buddies: collaboration for benchmark/user study
- Push at least a very short Changelog and Progress Report to the branch meeting_notes/16.5.2023
- Update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- Do at least 8 reviews of other PRs in this week in main repo and submissions
- Thesis: Write Refinement of Methods (Reviews Next week)
- Update doc/authors.md (May)
- Create PR improving design by contract/assertions
- finish or report all tasks related to M2: plant UI, auth, maps DB, user-specific seeds

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **12.5.2023** (KW19):

- Paul: UC timeline
- Gabriel: UC plant search, (log)
- Samuel: frontend auth, state refactoring, (components documentation), UC auth
- Moritz: base layer UC with fixed scale, DB review, (postgis?)
- Giancarlo: copy&paste (nach redo), drawing layer integrate, seeds edit&delete (nur CI fixen), plants layer drag&drop (offen)
- Thorben: map creation+alte PRs me, DB, Versioning, save&load, map properties
- Ramzan: PostGIS
- Lukas: PR permaplant, auth docu, (cargo)
- Felix: pre-commit, (priority, emails)
- Yvonne: Pavlo, https://tablericons.com
- Markus: use cases restructure

## Agenda

- 09:00 welcome
- protocol
- Welcome Felix (help with CI)
- Introduction game
- progress:
    - strict deadline for small tasks (e.g. voting)
    - best-effort for larger tasks (e.g. implementing features):
      immediate states before review is possible etc. ok
- Definition of Done (of a use case)
    - documentation: clear for others how changes/extensions should be done
    - integration tests: demonstrate what works
    - issues closed: moved to Done in https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/views/1
    - mark as "Done" in use case + changed if necessary
    - write Changelog for meeting
- [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- Retrospective first Half
- progress M2:
    - layers/base_layer.md
      - polygon of border
    - layers/plants_layer.md
      - plant plants
- Tools
    - https://unlighthouse.dev/
    - https://github.com/flamegraph-rs/flamegraph
    - valgrind
- conclusion: faults of the month

## Changelogs

**Please push progress important changes devs should know, e.g. decisions, in items below:**

- auth
- frontend integration
- architecture: https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/pull/352

## Progress Reports

**Please push a short progress report in items below:**

- Giancarlo
  - Adding plant from toolbar
  - And Copy & Paste of shapes

## Outlook

To be done until **19.5.2023**:

- talk to (non-)buddies: tooling for benchmarks etc.
- Push at least a very short Changelog to the branch meeting_notes/23.5.2023
- Update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- Do at least 8 reviews of other PRs in this week in main repo and submissions
- Thesis: create PR with one two sentences till tomorrow, review

## Meeting Notes

Allgemein

- Deadlines bis Freitag (kleine Tasks)
- Dokumentation/Reviews wichtig
- Test
- Issues schließen
- usecases auch updaten
- Changelog nicht unbedingt, sondern in Meeting-Notes

Sprint

- nc integration noch offen (Lukas)
- frontend arch. Issue kleine Problem (Paul)
- Base Layer (unused import) (Moritz)
- frontend arch. alle anschauen
- Dokumentation hinzufügen (Samuel)
- Merge bald wie möglich
- PostGIS-Diesel-PlugIn problem; manuell lösbar (Moritz)
