# Meeting 2023-07-11

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 7.7.2023**:

- Read [Test Strategy](doc/tests) and update of [DoD](doc/usecases/README.md)
- Get current use cases (UC) [done](doc/usecases/README.md)
- Submit&2x review Submissions : intro & transitions
- Buddy talk: case study
- Update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- Do at least 6 reviews of other PRs in main repo

## User Study

Please help fixing known bugs and blocking issues for user study until **Friday 7.7.2023**

https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/milestone/4

- #151 Personifying Error Messages -> Thorben
- #570 improve texts (remove "Edit attributes", "Drag and drop" -> Pflanzen/Planting, "Layers" -> Ebenen) -> Thorben
- #547 Edit Planting's Dates in Sidebar
- #541 plant icons shine through
- plantings: mouse partially over tooltip -> Paul
- labels for active layer via toolbar, "tags" icon -> Samuel
- eraser/trash -> Samuel
- disallow non-proportional resize -> Paul

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 7.7.2023**:

- Thorben: **UC map creation done**, **UC gain blossoms**
- Paul: **UC time line**, **UC plant layer** (relations&heatmap)
- Samuel: **base layer persistency**, CORS, **NC file picker**, NC hierarchy, (**UC photo layer**)
- Adi: #504 frontend BASE_URL, cargo build, (versioning), various tasks
- Lukas: **documentation of infrastructure**, CORS
- Gabriel: **base map API**, **heat map API**, **plant relations**, **API+DB for plants finish**, **UC map search**, **Plant layer: relations (API)**, map polygon API
- Christoph: **review DB**, **documentation regarding PermaplanT setup**, import of relations (in scraper), import of "sizes" (alternatives UC)
- Moritz: **edit plant properties**, **grid 10Pixel/10cm**, finish **UC plant search**, **UC base layer** with fixed scale in frontend with NC images, **seed/map search in frontend**, **UC shade layer**
- Markus: netidee
- Yvonne: netidee

## Attendees

- Adi
- Felix (Protokoll ok)
- Paul (Protokoll ok)
- Thorben (Protokoll ok)
- Gabriel (Protokoll ok)
- Moritz (Protokoll ok)
- Christoph (Protokoll ok)
- Lukas
- Giancarlo
- Markus
- Yvonne

Holidays:

- Samuel (Protokoll ok)

## Buddies

- Lukas & Felix
- Moritz & Christoph
- Gabriel & Thorben
- Adi & Paul

## Agenda

PermaplanT

- 09:00 welcome
- protocol: Adi
- tell someone how to improve and what was done great
- weekend goal: do case study
- Samuel Holidays Buddies
- weekly releases
- weekly submissions
- [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- [milestone plan](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/milestone/4)
- outlook

## Outlook: Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 18.7.2023**:

- Fix remaining problems in https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/milestone/4
- Do Case Study with PermaplanT
- Write in submissions about your case study (as contribution, with screenshot)
- For extra meetings in July: https://nextcloud.markus-raab.org/nextcloud/index.php/apps/polls/vote/22
- Get current use cases (UC) [done](doc/usecases/README.md)
- Buddy talk: case study
- Update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- Do at least 8 reviews of PRs in main repo or submissions

## Outlook: Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 18.7.2023**:

- Thorben: **UC gain blossoms done**
- Paul: **UC time line done**, **UC plant layer done** relations, **edit plant properties** (heatmap)
- Moritz: **UC base layer** with manual fixed scale in frontend with NC images, **NC file picker**, **grid 10pixel/10cm** (**UC shade layer**)
- Gabriel: **base map API**, **API+DB for plants finish**, **UC map search**, **Plant layer: relations (API)**, map polygon API, Lukas Doku?
- Lukas: **documentation of infrastructure**

- Adi: improve CI, smoke test

- Christoph: **review DB**, import of relations (in scraper), **documentation regarding PermaplanT setup**, (import of "sizes") (alternatives UC), (squashing)

- Markus: release
- Yvonne: case study

Holidays:

- Samuel: NC hierarchy, (**UC photo layer**)

## Meeting Notes

Feedbackrunde:
Gabriel: Lob an Paul, gute Ideen im Frontend und Backend(SSE).
Paul: Feedback an Thorben, gute Arbeit im Frontend.
Thorben: Feedback an Adi, schnell eingelebt.
Adi: Lob an Moritz für das Testprotokoll.
Moritz: Positives Feedback an Christoph.

Neue Buddies: Paul & Adi
Dieses Wochende letzten fixes.
PR's im Wochentakt mergen. Nicht zu lang offen lassen.
Christoph & Adi wöchentlich was schreiben (Case study).

Weekly Recap:
Markus viel mit Netidee beschäftigt.
Moritz war auf Urlaub und krank :/.
Thorben UI/UX arbeiten (hover tooltip, duplicate button, User sichtbare texte, Toast messages vereinheitlicht)
Paul UI improvements und bug fixes. Konva performance probleme.
Graue Linien entfernen, könnte die Performance verbessern.
Gabriel: Version, cronjobs(cascade delete?), heatmap.
Adi: Version, cargo build beschäftigt, kleine Pipeline improvements.
Christoph: Datenbank layout, ER diagramm.

Fokus:
Thorben -> Blossoms
Paul -> Timeline, Plant layer
Moritz -> Offene PR's abschließen. Grid->Layer scaling
Paul -> Heatmap < Plant picker
Gabriel -> Alles durchtesten, abschließen bis 16.07, CRUD interface baselayer + Protokoll
Adi -> Tests und buildtime improvement
Christoph -> DB tables, plant name formatting, plant labels.
