# Meeting 2023-11-06

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Moritz
- Daniel (Protocol done)
- Jannis (Protocol done)
- Adi

Not here:

- Samuel

## Buddies

- Moritz & Samuel
- Jannis & Christoph N.
- Adi & Daniel

## Agenda

- 09:00 welcome, mood
- Christoph N. nearly finished
- buddy talk
- Protocol: Moritz
- PermaplanT 0.3.5
  - fix planting of seeds
  - usability improvements and multi-select
- Conclusions/current state of:
  - UI guidelines (reviews missing)
  - key bindings
  - layers vs. groups -> change to groups
- [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- outlook

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 10.11.2023**:

- PRs review and merge
- review of guidelines
- buddy talk about guidelines
- get current issues, PRs and use cases (UC) [done](../usecases/README.md)
- create/update issues/tests (behavior driven) as needed for future tasks
- update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- do reviews of PRs in main repo and submissions
- submit a (short) text in submissions

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 10.11.2023**:

- Moritz: issue seeds on the map, naming, groups PR, base layer auto, snap tests
- Jannis: finish NC chat, milestone plan, Dockerfile neues Rust, mehrjährige pflanzen, remove variety
- Daniel: keybinding+timeline decisions/concept, notes+prototyping, refactoring
- Adi: Release, PRs abschließen, E2E merge: seeds tests, exceptions, concurrency

Not here:

- Samuel: reviews, landing page for mobile
- Chris: scraper fertig, plants hierarchy+relations

## Meeting Notes
