# Meeting 2023-09-25

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Daniel
- Adi (protocol done)
- Moritz (protocol done)

Did not attend:

- Christoph N.
- Chris K.
- Jannis
- Felix

## Buddies

- Moritz & Chris
- Adi & Felix
- Jannis & Christoph
- Daniel & Adi (Beginn)

## Agenda

- 09:00 welcome
- Buddy talk, was "Problem is the Solution"
- Permaculture Principles Part II
- Protocol: Moritz
- 3.4 release, finalize seed use case:
  - seed search
  - additional name everywhere
- [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- outlook

## Upcoming Meetings

Infrastructure Meetings:

- 26.9.2023 15:00, with Adi and Lukas
- 24.10.2023 15:00, additionally with Daniel and Chris

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 29.9.2023**:

- Get current issues, PRs and use cases (UC) [done](../usecases/README.md)
- Buddy talk: milestones, intro in PermaplanT/Submission
- Create/update issues (behavior driven) as needed for future tasks
- submit one page of text, maybe from free writing
- Update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- Do reviews of PRs in main repo and submissions

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 29.9.2023**:

- Daniel: intro tasks, submissions, use cases
- Adi: E2E seeds tests
- Moritz: seeds search, seed UC done, seeds page test
- Felix: (1) Module, Initialisierung, Sender+Receiver, Schnittstellenbeschreibung ohne Fehler, Trait Send impl, method for testing (2) Shutdown&Watchdog&Fehler&Pipes overruns, finish refactor
- Christoph: search improvements, multi-select UC erstellen, copy&paste UC split, usability guidelines, restore-viewing-state UC (decision: Zustand persist)

- Chris: scraper fertig, plants hierarchy+relations

## Meeting Notes

Goal for this week: Finish and Release Seed use case.
What was done last week:
Christoph managed to fix a tricky Bug regarding search fields being cleared implicitly.
Adi improved makefile dependencies.
Moritz worked on various bugs and improvements on the seeds page.
