# Meeting 2023-05-09

_Protocolled by: Moritz_

## Attendees

- Gabriel
- Moritz
- Samuel
- Giancarlo
- Thorben
- Lukas
- Paul
- Markus
- Yvonne

Fehlt:

- Ramzan

## Buddies

- Giancarlo & Moritz
- Lukas & Gabriel
- Ramzan & Thorben
- Samuel & Paul

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **5.5.2023** (KW18):

- Get all PRs for plants use case merged, so that we have a integrated UI with all parts
- Speak to your buddy about fixed hours
- update your README in submissions: fixed hours, contact data etc.
- Write Forschungstagebuch
- Push at least a very short Changelog and Progress Report to the branch meeting_notes/9.5.2023
- Update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- Do at least 8 reviews of other PRs in this week in main repo and submissions
- Thesis: write any page you feel like, Free Writing
- Nominate for [“Best PermaplanT Companion”-Awards KW19](https://nextcloud.markus-raab.org/nextcloud/index.php/apps/polls/vote/15)
  (now without Nursultan and Benjamin, we will miss them!)

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **5.5.2023** (KW18):

- Ramzan: Post GIS
- Paul: frontend architecture, timeline
- Giancarlo: copy&paste (nach redo), plants layer drag&drop (offen), seeds edit&delete (nur CI fixen)
- Samuel: state refactoring, frontend auth
- Gabriel: auth, testing strategy, new unit tests
- Thorben: map creation with versions full stack (UI, end point, database)
- Moritz: base layer (SimpleForm offen), DB review
- Lukas: keycloak
- Yvonne: Drawings, https://tablericons.com
- Markus: PRs mergen

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **12.5.2023** (KW19):

- Paul: frontend architecture, timeline
- Giancarlo: copy&paste (nach redo), seeds edit&delete (nur CI fixen), plants layer drag&drop (offen)
- Samuel: state refactoring, frontend auth, components documentation
- Gabriel: auth, testing strategy, new integration tests, plant search
- Moritz: base layer (SimpleForm offen), DB review, base layer specific for maps+polygons, integration for plants layer
- Thorben: map creation+alte PRs me, DB, Versioning, save&load, map properties
- Lukas: keycloak, left-over issues
- Yvonne: Pavlo, https://tablericons.com
- Markus: PRs mergen

## Agenda

- 09:00 welcome
- protocol
- game: true/false question
- team, team, team
  - for benchmarks?
  - for user study? (Thorben/Giancarlo)
  - https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/lighthouse/blipmdconlkpinefehnmjammfjpmpbjk?hl=en
- English&Thesis
  - mood changer
  - line breaks in text
  - avoid modal verbs
  - methods: only what is actually used
- large scale programming
  - write more assertions
  - end-to-end tests summary
- [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- milestone M2 finished

## Changelogs

**Please push progress important changes devs should know, e.g. decisions, in items below:**

- OAuth2
- decision: 5 sec timeout
- decision: keybindings in JSON files
- companions table

## Questions

**Please push questions in items below:**

## Progress Reports

**Please push a short progress report in items below:**

- Gabriel: documentation of backend architecture (merged), OAuth2 in backend (review)
- Samuel: finished toolbar (#315, #189), toolbar integration ready for review after #244 and #306 are merged, WIP: frontend auth
- Moritz: finish base layer PR (update from review needed)

## Outlook

- finish M2: plant UI, auth, maps DB, user-specific seeds
- talk to (non-)buddies: collaboration for benchmark/user study
- Push at least a very short Changelog and Progress Report to the branch meeting_notes/16.5.2023
- Update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- Do at least 8 reviews of other PRs in this week in main repo and submissions
- Thesis: Write Refinement of Methods (Reviews Next week)
- Update doc/authors.md (May)
- Create PR improving design by contract/assertions

## Meeting Notes

1. Small warm up game.
2. Teams for evaluation
   - BSc. students performing a user study or a benchmark should get toghether and unify their processes.
   - This might reduce the time to perform benchmarks for multiple componenets.
   - Gabriel: consider using Lighthouse for frontend evaluation
3. English in context of BSc. thesis. and reviews.
   - mood changers (but, however, ...):
   - Can be left out entirely and replaced by paragraphs
   - However is a bit complicated to use. E.g. don't use at the end of a sentence.
   - Phrases should not be changed.
   - Line break after each sentence
   - Modal verbs (can, might, may, ...). Should be used to communicate probailities in technical contexts. Its best to avoid them throughout the thesis.
4. Methodology section
   - Should only contain methodologies that are actually used.
5. Progress reports
   - Communicate changes of scope early (e.g. something can not be done within a week).
   - More feedback (especially until friday).
   - Be open about mistakes.
   - Put weekly changes into progress report so that other team members get an overview of what changed.
6. Pablo sent a comprehensive companion list
7. Update/Cleanup of issue board
   - We need to make sure that debugging does not become to cumbersome.
   - Design by contract should be used internally to avoid mistakes.
   - Should be enforced using assertions.
   - How and where this will be used still needs to be figured out.
