# Meeting 2023-10-30

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Moritz
- Christoph N.
- Daniel (Protocol done)
- Jannis (Protocol done)

Not here:

- Adi
- Chris K.

## Buddies

- Moritz & Chris K.
- Jannis & Christoph N.
- Adi & Daniel

## Agenda

- 09:00 welcome
- Protocol: Christoph N.
- Conclusions/current state of:
  - UI guidelines
  - listeners
  - key bindings
  - layers vs. groups
- PermaplanT 0.3.5
  - fix planting of seeds
  - usability improvements (multi-select, sizes of plants)
- [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- outlook

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 3.11.2023**:

- buddy talk
- get current issues, PRs and use cases (UC) [done](../usecases/README.md)
- create/update issues/tests (behavior driven) as needed for future tasks
- update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- do reviews of PRs in main repo and submissions
- Submit a (short) text in submissions

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 3.11.2023**:

- Jannis: finish NC chat, milestone plan, Dockerfile neues Rust, 2 first PermaplanT issues
- Moritz: layers vs. groups, issue seeds on the map, base layer auto, (snap tests)
- Christoph: usability guidelines, multi-select UC, issues von user studie erstellen
- Daniel: keybinding+timeline decisions/concept, notes+prototyping, refactoring
- Samuel: review UI guidelines&PRs

Not here:

- Chris: scraper fertig, plants hierarchy+relations
- Adi: PRs abschlie√üen, E2E merge: seeds tests, exceptions, concurrency

## Meeting Notes
