# Meeting 2023-11-27

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Jannis
- Daniel
- Adi
- Moritz
- Samuel

## Buddies

- Moritz & Samuel
- Adi & Daniel & Jannis

## Agenda

- 09:00 welcome, mood
- Protocol: Jannis
- Paul
- 0.3.7 release
- buddy talk code comments
- tailwind CSS linter
- weekly tasks:
  - always review meeting notes afterwards
- [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- outlook

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 1.12.2023**:

- approve meeting notes
- buddy talk topic: How are you?
- do/update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- check for reviews https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+user-review-requested%3A%40me

If possible/needed, do:

- create/update issues/tests (behavior driven) as needed for future tasks
- get current issues, PRs and use cases (UC) [done](../usecases/README.md)
- review of meeting PR https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/pull/1072/files
- do reviews of PRs in main repo and submissions
- submit a (short) text in submissions

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 1.12.2023**:

- Daniel: timeline mergen, UC issues weiter
- Jannis: push draft NC chat, PermaplanT: de+en plant names, (mehrjährige pflanzen, remove variety)
- Samuel: reviews, help others, ranking/language/tooltips, docu tests
- Moritz: polygon, snap tests with Samuel, broadcasting issue für Paul, (group instead of layers)
- Adi: e2e with Samuel

Not here:

- Chris: scraper fertig, plants hierarchy+relations

## Meeting Notes

- Plants with is_tree should get a different icon (wavy lines).
- CSS tailwind parser needs more time for conclusion.
- changing to new test framework, Samuel should document outcome
- Zoom in map editor should be different maybe exponentional.
