# Meeting 2023-04-11

_Protocolled by: Nursultan_

## Attendees

- Moritz (Best PermaplanT Companion KW15)
- Samuel (Best PermaplanT Companion KW14)
- Benjamin (Best PermaplanT Companion KW13)
- Nursultan (Best PermaplanT Companion KW12)
- Giancarlo (Best PermaplanT Companion KW11)
- Paul
- Gabriel
- Lukas
- Ramzan
- Thorben
- Markus
- Yvonne

## Buddies

- Giancarlo & Moritz
- Lukas & Gabriel
- Samuel & Nursultan
- Ramzan & Thorben
- Benjamin & Paul

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done within next week KW14 (7.4.2023):

- Update [doc/authors.md to](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/pull/243) reflect what you already worked on
- Add small picture of your head to Nextcloud in `Public/Avatars` (80x80 for landing page)
- Test inserting seeds and [report here](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/issues/221)
- Write decisions [#2](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/issues/2)
- Read and update PermplanT's [glossary](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/pull/250)
- Write Forschungstagebuch in submissions repo (longer progress report)
- Add at least one question and a very short progress report, relevant for others, in [agenda](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/pull/227)
- Update [Project](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- Nominate for [“Best PermaplanT Companion”-Awards KW15](https://nextcloud.markus-raab.org/nextcloud/index.php/apps/polls/vote/11)
- Do at least 8 reviews of other PRs in this week (main repo and submissions)
- Speak to your Buddy about glossary, what is missing, what could be extended?
- Thesis: write Glossary&Goals (submission)
- (Optional) Add review/correction/proof-read metadata for every paragraph in thesis, see unterlagen/paragraph_metadata.md
- (Optional) Apply spelling.sed and checks to your thesis (see unterlagen)

## Individual Tasks

To be done within next week KW14 (7.4.2023):

- Yvonne: Logo, Drawings, Testing Seed entries, "Additional Name", Documentation of structs
- Markus: Texts for landing page
- Benjamin: plant search, creating a new layer, full text search
- Gabriel: mdBook, testing strategy
- Giancarlo: seed overview (edit, delete, ...)
- Lukas: Frontend, Release Deployment, Import Seeds
- Moritz: Finish Seed use case, create new layer, frontend tests
- Nursultan: scraping, plant DB finalize, architecture, thesis correction
- Paul: translation for frontend, Documentation Frontend, Seed fix
- Ramzan: use cases, Database Guidelines, DB/ER Diagram, SQL code examples feasability, 1. QGis, 2. Projizieren, 3. Rastering
- Samuel: landing page fixes, UI for plant use case (right toolbar), use cases
- Thorben: use cases, DB/ER Diagram, Mockups, privacy, imprint, pricing, map

## Agenda

- 09:00 welcome
  - Best PermaplanT Companion KW15: Moritz
- Stimmungsbarometer
- Questions:
  - buddy talk: glossary
- [Project](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/): Planning for next iteration.
  - please move tasks back if (significant) changes were requested
  - please only keep "In Progress" if you really work on it that day
  - please first request reviews from others before you request from me
- target audience
  - thesis: programmers
  - PermaplanT: FLOSS contributors (could be biologists)
- Frontend Meeting
  - Implementation of Layers can be started!
  - Landing page
  - Layers/sidebar prototype
  - Timeline
- DB meeting
  - Luciano helps with GIS
  - coordinates
  - Plant DB gets squashed to one migration
- Preparation for In-Person Meeting
- finish M1 this week
- implement M2 this week

## Meeting notes:

- Glossary not complete, still some work to do
- authentication setup tested with next cloud
- openId connect plugin of Nextcloud did not work as expected and the limitations will stay
- will host external identity provider
- CORS: wasn't the problem -> actual routing problem fixed
- decided to switch to async diesel in backend on all layers, no uses of web::block anymore
- dark mode default, setting stored in local storage
- FrontEnd docs, typedoc forked -> creating repo
- db schema of hierarchies is not stable
- invite at least one reviewer before markus takes a look (in case it is not urgent)
- talk with Markus when adding synonyms in glossary
- frontend meeting summary:
  - changes in landing page
  - decision of paul for localization
  - current state of the toolbar
  - went over moritz' mockup for timeline
  - giancarlo finished the design for first layer
- database meeting:
  - Luciano - PostGIS expert
  - squash all the migrations
- translation in common instead of i18n
- architecture decisions
  - lazyloading of the map
  - optimizations:
    - how and when does react rerender the components -> implement good data structure
    - how to represent 10 000 elements?
  - offloading of the frontend state
  - undo and redo
- pull requests should not live longer than 2 weeks
- 1 scientifc name + 1 additional name (because there are plants with no scientific names yet)
- live meeting in burgendland
  - Unterfrauenhaid
  - Feldgasse 19
  - PLZ: 7321
  - Train: Deutschkreutz
  - Bus: Weppersdorf

## Progress Reports

**Please push progress reports in items below:**

- Benjamin: squash migrations, database schema
- Nursultan:
  - Scraping Permapeople #102. Should add enums, otherwise done.
  - Scraping Reinsaat #123. There is an inconsistencies in the binomial names, currently pending. discussing with Yvonne. Otherwise done.
  - Merging plant DB and Scrapers #217. Two tasks mentioned above should be separated from merging to avoid duplication of work. In progress.
  - Architecture decisions #102. Small changes are still needed. In progress.
  - Thesis. Done and waiting for feedback
- Paul: added translation for seeds
- Markus:
  - Scientific name
  - Datenschutz (privacy) page
  - Cookie only after login
  - use static map by default

## Questions

**Please push questions in items below:**

## Decisions

**Please push Progress in decisions, or other important changes devs should know, in items below:**

- commit hooks
- [PostGIS full text search](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/textsearch.html)
- react query for new features
- [Which ORM crate/setup do we want?](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/pull/172)
- [How to store plant relationships?](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/pull/89)

## Outlook

To be done within next week KW15 (14.4.2023):

- Test inserting seeds and [report here](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/issues/221)
- Finalize decisions [#2](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/issues/2)
- Write Forschungstagebuch in submissions repo (longer progress report)
- Add at least one question and a very short progress report, relevant for others
- Update [Project](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- Nominate for [“Best PermaplanT Companion”-Awards KW16](https://nextcloud.markus-raab.org/nextcloud/index.php/apps/polls/vote/13)
- Do at least 8 reviews of other PRs in this week (main repo and submissions)
- Thesis: write hypothesis, improve Glossary&Goals (submission)
- Look at ways how to improve documentation (storybook or mdBook)
- Speak to your Buddy: In-Person Meeting
