# Meeting 2023-12-27

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Daniel (Protocol done)

Break:

- Samuel
- Jannis (Protocol done)
- Christoph (Protocol done)
- Moritz

## Buddies

- Moritz & Samuel
- Daniel & Christoph

## Agenda

- 09:00 welcome
- Protocol: Daniel
- Next meeting 2nd January 9:00 Chris, Daniel
- [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Sunday 31.12.2023**:

1. buddy talk topic: improvement of documentation
2. do/update [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)
3. approve meeting PR [#1129](https://pull.permaplant.net/1129/files),
   check for [requested reviews](https://pulls.permaplant.net/?q=is%3Aopen+user-review-requested%3A%40me)

If possible/needed, do:

- create/update issues/tests (behavior driven) as needed for future tasks
- get current issues, PRs and use cases (UC) [done](../usecases/README.md)
- do reviews of PRs in main repo and submissions
- submit a (short) text in submissions

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Sunday 31.12.2023**:

- Daniel: PRs fertig, continue drawing layer frontend, create drawing layer backend issue, events performance?, create layers and label layer issues

Break:

- Christoph: finish docu&scraper, plants hierarchy+relations
- Moritz (?): create shade layer UC issues, group instead of layers, heat map, write about performance tests
- Samuel: reviews, help others, documentation of unit tests
- Jannis: push draft NC chat, PermaplanT: de+en plant names

## Meeting notes

- Polygons can be closed by clicking on start point
- bezier anchors should always be shown when in editing mode of polygon
- lines should be stored relative to starting point so that moving of elements can be done equally for each element
- error toasts should be automatically closed
