# Meeting 2023-12-18

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Moritz
- Daniel (Protocol done)
- Samuel
- Christoph

Break:

- Jannis (Protocol done)

## Buddies

- Moritz & Samuel
- Daniel & Christoph

## Agenda

- 09:00 welcome, advices
- Protocol: Christoph
- Next two weeks:
  - (26ter 15:00 Chris)
  - 27th December 9:00 Chris, Daniel, Moritz?
  - 2nd January 9:00 Chris, Daniel
- migrate to `vitest`
- tests
- buddy talk "reviews+get PRs merged", methodology
- [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 22.12.2023**:

1. buddy talk topic: backend tasks
2. do/update [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)
3. approve meeting PR [#1129](https://pull.permaplant.net/1129/files),
   check for [requested reviews](https://pulls.permaplant.net/?q=is%3Aopen+user-review-requested%3A%40me)

If possible/needed, do:

- create/update issues/tests (behavior driven) as needed for future tasks
- get current issues, PRs and use cases (UC) [done](../usecases/README.md)
- do reviews of PRs in main repo and submissions
- submit a (short) text in submissions

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 22.12.2023**:

- Samuel: reviews, help others, documentation of unit tests
- Daniel: timeline 2ter PR, UC issues! weiter drawing layer
- Moritz: shade layer UC issues, group instead of layers, heat map, write about performance tests
- Christoph: scraper fertig, plants hierarchy+relations

Break:

- Jannis: push draft NC chat, PermaplanT: de+en plant names, (mehrjährige pflanzen, remove variety)

## Meeting Notes

Neue Teammember
Daniel - Christoph

PR #1120 soll rebased werden
Wenn möglich soll sich jemand #1087 anschauen, wir haben performanceprobleme
