# Meeting 2023-03-28

_Protocolled by: Nursultan_

## Attendees:

-   Benjamin  (Best PermaplanT Companion KW13)
-   Nursultan (Best PermaplanT Companion KW12)
-   Giancarlo (Best PermaplanT Companion KW11)
-   Paul
-   Samuel
-   Gabriel
-   Moritz
-   Lukas
-   Ramzan
-   Thorben
-   Markus
-   Yvonne

## Buddies:

-   Giancarlo & Moritz
-   Lukas & Gabriel
-   Samuel & Nursultan
-   Ramzan & Thorben
-   Benjamin & Paul

## Task for Everyone

To be done within this week (24.03.2023):

-   Socratic questioning on your and as review on other PRs (see socratic_questioning.md in submissions)
-   Create your own milestone plan and create PR in submissions
-   Look at one of the examples thesis in submissions
-   Add at least one question and a progress report in agenda (push to branch meeting_notes/28.03.2023)
-   Read all usecases, progress report which ones you find interesting
-   Speak to your Buddy: what will your case study be?
-   Update [Project](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
-   Nominate for [“Best PermaplanT Companion”-Awards KW13](https://nextcloud.markus-raab.org/nextcloud/index.php/apps/polls/vote/8)
-   Do at least 6 reviews of other PRs (main repo and submissions)

## Individual Tasks

-   Benjamin: use cases, linting&auto-formatting
-   Gabriel: API documentation+ORM
-   Giancarlo: finish seed use case
-   Lukas: CI, (release)
-   Moritz: finish seed use case
-   Nursultan: feasibility study+architecture document
-   Paul: Finish seed use case, Frontend
-   Ramzan: use cases, Database Guidelines, Feasability, 1. QGis, 2. Projizieren, 3. Rastering
-   Samuel: Landing Page, NC Decision Document
-   Thorben: use cases

## Agenda

-   09:00 welcome
-   Questions:
    -   buddy talk: what is your case study? (use PermaplanT yourself)
    -   GitHub+NC notifications enabled?
    -   How many PRs did you review?
    -   Interesting usecases?
-   [Project](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/): Planning for next iteration
-   English:
    -   hyphen: up-to-date topic, highly-interactive app, vs. the app is highly interactive
    -   terms always the same (Glossary!)
    -   when writing, look up grammar rules etc.
    -   for verbs search for synonyms
-   getting better meeting notes
    -   always push to agenda what affects others (decisions, documentation, hooks, ...)
-   Tips for your thesis:
    -   Forschungstagebuch
    -   speed
    -   look at other thesis
-   working together
    -   common components (SimpleButton improvement PR)
    -   benchmark setups
    -   code
    -   minimize work on thesis
-   technicalities:
    -   PRs with generic issues (use cases #1, decisions #2), don't need extra issues just for the PR
    -   make sure PRs have README.md
    -   branch names see .github/CONTRIBUTING.md
    -   merging policy: own PRs should not be merged by yourself, others are okay if you are sure it is okay and it solves a problem for you (e.g. fixes builds).
-   paper
    -   how to write methodology
    -   what is important for RQs
-   outcome of backend meeting:
    -   we want to use Swagger
    -   decisions: prefer to simply push
-   assignment of one use cases

Break, and then:

-   Frontend Team kick-off
-   tailwind configuration
-   common components

## Progress Reports

-   Samuel
    -   added env file with API_URL to frontend
    -   defined color structure in tailwind
    -   implemented landing page suggestions and dark mode
    -   stuck at accessing values from tailwind configuration (typescript errors)
-   Moritz
    -   seeds entry is almost done
    -   only thing that is that is missing is the integration of the scraped data
-  Benjamin
    -   Set up pre commit hooks for the whole project.
    -   Add front end commands for the check stage of the CI pipeline.
    -   Get in touch with Pavlo to get more info on plant relation data.
    -   Work on a sketch for the database schema for representing plant relationships.

## Questions

-   Samuel
    -   When are PRs merged?
    -   How to avoid duplicate effort? 
        E.g. I am working on simple components that I need for my feature other people might need similar components for different feature.
        Should we create smaller PRs that get merged fast? E.g. SimpleButton improvement PR
-   Moritz
    -   Is there already a standard format for branch names and commit messages?
-   Benjamin
    -   Is the current state of the database schema on master fixed or subject to change?

## Outlook

Extra Meetings:

-   Today afterwards: Frontend
-   Thursday 9:00: Polyculture

To be done till 31.3.2023:

-   finalize [use cases](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/issues/1)
-   Read all decisions, progress report which ones you agree
-   start decisions [#2](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/issues/2)
-   write Forschungstagebuch in submissions repo (longer progress report)
-   Add at least one question and a very short progress report, relevant for others (e.g. common components, decisions, ...), in agenda (push to branch meeting_notes/04.04.2023)
-   Speak to your Buddy about decisions
-   Update [Project](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
-   Nominate for [“Best PermaplanT Companion”-Awards KW14](https://nextcloud.markus-raab.org/nextcloud/index.php/apps/polls/vote/9)
-   Do at least 8 reviews of other PRs (main repo and submissions)
-   Screen PermaplanT for the benefit that you personally want to achieve for your case study. Check, if your needs are met.
-   thesis: write methodology

