# Meeting 2023-06-27

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 23.6.2023**:

- Get current use cases (UC) [done](../usecases/README.md)
- Talk to buddy about UI improvements and look together to dev.permaplant.net
- Submissions: abstract (4 sentences: context, problem, method, results) & conclusion
- Push at least a short Changelog to the branch meeting_notes/27.06.2023
- Update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- Do at least 8 reviews of other PRs in main repo or submissions (abstract)
- Read already merged architecture part IV available as mdbook, see main README.md to build
- add photos you have from meeting to Nextcloud Photos/20230618_Live_meeting

## Bug squashing

Please help fixing known bugs and UI issues until **Friday 23.6.2023**, e.g.:

- use layer IDs
- preview eher nicht
- icons ein/ausblenden
- layers ordnen
- touch screen: on-click
- text weg
- on-hover
- "planting" box better highlighting
- redraw on resizing

A big thanks to Samuel&Paul for being behind this!
Please join the effort!

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 23.6.2023**:

- Lukas: documentation of infrastructure, nextcloud base URL frontend fix, review felix PR, Keycloak SMTP (password reset)
- Felix: cargo faster, make doc, mdbook deployment, pre-commit, emails
- Gabriel: **API+DB for plants finish**, **UC map search**, **Plant layer: relations (API)**, heat map, map polygon API
- Christoph: review DB, documentation regarding PermaplanT setup, import of relations (in scraper), import of "sizes"
- Samuel: keybindings, NC file picker, NC decision, NC hierarchy, bug fixes pair programming, Bug squashing with Paul
- Paul: **UC plant layer**, time line UC, Bug squashing with Samuel
- Moritz: **UC plant search**, **UC base layer** with fixed scale in frontend with NC images, **seed/map search in frontend**
- Thorben: **UC map creation done**, **UC gain blossoms**, (membership application)
- Markus: end-user docu

## Attendees

- Paul
- Christoph (Protokoll done)
- Samuel (Protokoll done)
- Gabriel (Protokoll done)
- Moritz (Protokoll done)
- Thorben (Protokoll done)
- Adi
- Felix
- Giancarlo
- Markus
- Yvonne

not here:

- Lukas

## Buddies

- Lukas & Felix & Adi
- Moritz & Christoph
- Gabriel & Thorben
- Samuel & Paul

## Agenda

- 09:00 welcome
- protocol: Paul
- welcome Adi
- buddy talk: UI improvements
- deadlines, create individual deadlines for you in README.md:
  - **maximum** to August
  - other remaining tasks
  - issues (simply assign and link to assigned issues)
  - UC
  - text writing: introduction+goals
  - fixing bugs
- update authors.md
- abstract (4 sentences: context, problem, method, results) & conclusion
- [architecture](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/issues/500):
  - minimal packages
  - npm packages for testing?
  - ids vs. text
  - performance: avoid polling
- show/increment version number: [#510](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/issues/510) daily micro-releases
- new deployment www.permaplant.net
- [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- outlook

## Outlook: Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 30.6.2023**:

- Get current use cases (UC) [done](../usecases/README.md)
- Submissions: abstract (4 sentences: context, problem, method, results) & conclusion
- Push at least a short Changelog to the branch meeting_notes/04.07.2023
- Update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- create PR in submissions updating README.md with deadlines and all remaining tasks
- create PR updating authors.md
- Do at least 8 reviews of other PRs in main repo and submissions
- Read already merged architecture part V available as mdbook, see main README.md to build

## Outlook: Bug Squashing

Please help fixing known bugs and UI issues until **Friday 30.6.2023**

- use icons for plants
- use layer IDs
- icons
- layers order
- touch screen: on-click
- remove left-overs
- on-hover texts
- "planting" box better highlighting
- redraw on resizing

In [same PR](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/pull/497):

- also remove pan
- tooltip not an selected plant and partly not visible and too small

New issues needed:

- "hello" appears quite often -> Paul
- texts: remove "Edit attributes", "Drag and drop" -> Pflanzen/Planting, "Layers" -> Ebenen; -> Moritz
- layer tutorial -> Thorben

Already existing issues:

- edit props -> Moritz
- order of layers -> done master

## Outlook: Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 30.6.2023**:

- Thorben: **UC map creation done**, **UC gain blossoms**
- Moritz: **UC plant search**, **UC base layer** with fixed scale in frontend with NC images, **seed/map search in frontend**, **UC shade layer**, **grid**
- Paul: **UC plant layer**, time line UC
- Samuel: UC photo layer, keybindings, NC file picker, NC decision, NC hierarchy, bug fixes pair programming, Bug squashing with Paul
- Christoph: review DB, documentation regarding PermaplanT setup, import of relations (in scraper), import of "sizes" (alternatives UC)
- Gabriel: business logic: **plant relations**, **API+DB for plants finish**, **UC map search**, **Plant layer: relations (API)**, heat map, map polygon API
- Adi: npm doc, mdbook deployment, (versioning)
- Felix: pre-commit, emails
- Markus: release
- Lukas: documentation of infrastructure

## Changelogs

**Please push progress important changes devs should know, e.g. decisions, in items with syntax `- change _(Your Name)_` below:**

Moved to doc/CHANGELOG.md

## Meeting Notes

- short game with statements about other team members
- thesis should be done at the latest until August (end of term)

- UI improvements:
- tooltip should be bigger and not overlap the mouse cursor (ideally -> scale dependent)
- tooltip does not work if plant is selected
- icons for plants
- debug grid (every 10 cm a point or fine line)
- change plant default size (30 cm)
- slider handle maybe more prominent? (vertical dots)

- Adi will look at the test strategy
- important use cases should be tested end-to-end (move plant, add plant, ...)
- first e2e test (plant search and check results)

- thesis: free writing: write per hand what comes into mind -> refactor

- changelog:
- in its own file? -> yes (commit together with the PR)

- readme in submissions:
- specify final deadline (latest 31 august)
- list all tasks to finish thesis
