# Meeting 2023-10-16

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Daniel
- Adi
- Moritz
- Christoph N.
- Chris K.
- Jannis
- Felix

## Buddies

- Moritz & Chris K.
- Jannis & Christoph N.
- Adi & Daniel

## Agenda

- 09:00 welcome, high-five
- buddy talk: case study
- Felix nearly done
- Protocol: Chris K.
- PermaplanT 1.0
  - no tablet support but multi-browser
  - no offline support but collaboration
  - no range selection but timeline
  - no alternatives but creation of layers
  - reduce to essential layers
- PermaplanT 0.3.5
  - fix planting of seeds (mark with envelope in common search)
  - usability improvements (multi-select, sizes of plants)
- [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- outlook

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 20.10.2023**:

- submit a (short) text in submissions
- buddy talk
- Get current issues, PRs and use cases (UC) [done](../usecases/README.md)
- Create/update issues/tests (behavior driven) as needed for future tasks
- Update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- Do reviews of PRs in main repo and submissions

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 20.10.2023**:

- Felix: Modul Dokumentation, Schnittstellenbeschreibung mit Fehler, Shutdown&Watchdog Beschreibung/Drop, fix issues
- Jannis: finish NC chat+online status, milestone plan, Dockerfile neues Rust, 2 first PermaplanT issues
- Moritz: additional name fix, seeds search, seed UC done, refactoring, issue seeds on the map
- Daniel: keybinding+notes decisions/concept, impl notes?
- Christoph: UC merge, usability guidelines, PR seed search?, submission repo
- Adi: E2E seeds/concurrency tests, locator guidelines
- Chris: scraper fertig, plants hierarchy+relations

## Meeting Notes
