# Meeting 2023-03-03

_Protocolled by: Nursultan_

## Attendees:

-   Markus
-   Yvonne
-   Gabriel
-   Lukas
-   Nursultan
-   Samuel

## Agenda:

### Persons

-   Nursultan's questions ([link](#person1)):
    -   Backend fails in PR #48
    -   Discuss new use cases for map layers #66
    -   Discuss versions for layers #67
    -   Present new mockups for the map layers
    -   Why don't we merge meeting PRs yet?

## Meeting notes:

Nursultan:

-   make naming in the backend consistent. `varieties` into `plants`
-   layers use cases
    -   discuss together with Markus later
-   discussed versions of layers
    -   time of the map(e.g. crop time) vs time of the actions taken by user(e.g. delete an elemnent from the map bzw. undo-redo)
-   trees can be both as areas and dots
-   presented figma mockups for layers

Gabriel:

-   branching strategy in contribution guidelines PR #62

    -   feature/#50-some-description
    -   bugfix/#51-desc

Lukas:

-   discussed deployment

Samuel:

-   next steps
    -   mockups
-   formatters

    -   build server doesn't lint code yet
    -   use rust formatter for rust and prettier for everything else

General:

-   new namings should go to glossary
-   push your questions to the meeting PR before the call
-   milestones with their dates will be defined shortly

-   supervision for new developers
    -   think of a test task for them to understand their knowledge
-   link your mockups in GitHub/Nextcloud i.e. should be accessible for everyone on our systems
-   before the next meeting:
    -   contact your buddy
    -   use github project and clean your tasks/issues bzw. write a small status update

## Extended personal questions

### Nursultan

-   Backend fails in PR #48

    PR is almost finished. The last thing to do is to fix the deployment pipeline. The problem is that the renaming of the `variety` table into `plants` table is not reflected in the backend code. The backend code still refers to the `variety` table. Should I replace all the backend namings(entities, services, etc.) from `variety` into `plants`?

-   Discuss new use cases for map layers #66

    Dive deeper into the new use cases and discuss them with the team.

-   Discuss versions for layers #67
-   Present new mockups for the map layers
    You can find the new mockups under the following link:
    https://www.figma.com/file/C5j1HfHWEcdTc7BKAFr7HL/PermaplanT-Layers?node-id=0%3A1&t=GKinsBRfOshi665q-1

    I will also link them in the documentation later.

-   Why don't we merge meeting PRs yet?
