# Meeting 2023-03-02

_Protocolled by: Nursultan_

## Attendees:

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Gabriel
- Lukas
- Nursultan
- Samuel

## Agenda:

### Persons

- Nursultan's questions ([link](#person1)):
  - Backend fails in PR #48
  - Discuss new use cases for map layers #66
  - Discuss versions for layers #67
  - Present new mockups for the map layers
  - Why don't we merge meeting PRs yet?

## Meeting notes:

Nursultan:

- make naming in the backend consistent. `varieties` into `plants`
- layers use cases
  - discuss together with Markus later
- discussed versions of layers
  - time of the map(e.g. crop time) vs time of the actions taken by user(e.g. delete an elemnent from the map bzw. undo-redo)
- trees can be both as areas and dots
- presented figma mockups for layers

Gabriel:

- branching strategy in contribution guidelines PR #62

  - feature/#50-some-description
  - bugfix/#51-desc

Lukas:

- discussed deployment

Samuel:

- next steps
  - mockups
- formatters

  - build server doesn't lint code yet
  - use rust formatter for rust and prettier for everything else

General:

- new namings should go to glossary
- push your questions to the meeting PR before the call
- milestones with their dates will be defined shortly

- supervision for new developers
  - think of a test task for them to understand their knowledge
- link your mockups in GitHub/Nextcloud i.e. should be accessible for everyone on our systems
- before the next meeting:
  - contact your buddy
  - use github project and clean your tasks/issues bzw. write a small status update

## Extended personal questions

### Nursultan

- Backend fails in PR #48

  PR is almost finished. The last thing to do is to fix the deployment pipeline. The problem is that the renaming of the `variety` table into `plants` table is not reflected in the backend code. The backend code still refers to the `variety` table. Should I replace all the backend namings(entities, services, etc.) from `variety` into `plants`?

- Discuss new use cases for map layers #66

  Dive deeper into the new use cases and discuss them with the team.

- Discuss versions for layers #67
- Present new mockups for the map layers
  You can find the new mockups under the following link:
  https://www.figma.com/file/C5j1HfHWEcdTc7BKAFr7HL/PermaplanT-Layers?node-id=0%3A1&t=GKinsBRfOshi665q-1

  I will also link them in the documentation later.

- Why don't we merge meeting PRs yet?
