# Meeting 2023-06-13

_Protocol by: Christoph_

## Attendees

- Christoph
- Samuel (Protokoll done)
- Gabriel (Protokoll done)
- Moritz (Protokoll done)
- Thorben
- Paul
- Felix
- Lukas
- Giancarlo
- Markus
- Yvonne

## Buddies

- Lukas & Felix & Christoph
- Giancarlo & Moritz
- Gabriel & Thorben
- Samuel & Paul

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 9.6.2023**:

- Focus Meetings https://nextcloud.markus-raab.org/nextcloud/index.php/apps/polls/vote/20
- Vote for live meeting https://nextcloud.markus-raab.org/nextcloud/index.php/apps/polls/vote/21
- Get current use case (UC) [done](doc/usecases/README.md)
- Talk to buddy: live meeting ride sharing
- Add some text for your thesis in submissions
- Push at least a short Changelog to the branch meeting_notes/13.06.2023
- Create FLOSS issues (label: FLOSS)
- Update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- Do at least 8 reviews of other PRs in main repo or submissions
- Read architecture (already merged) available as mdbook, see main README.md Part II
- [Nextcloud](https://cloud.permaplant.net) testing

## Previous Tasks

To be done until **Friday 9.6.2023**:

- Thorben: **API+DB for plants+maps**, loading of map, membership application, **UC Map creation done**
- Gabriel: **API+DB for plants**, **UC auth**, **UC map search**, (**Plant layer: relations**)
- Samuel: landing page: (1) 2x chat msg, (2) chat window (3) gallery, components documentation, NC strukturen (circles, gruppen)
- Felix: emails, cargo faster, (mdbook deployment, pre-commit)
- Moritz: **UC plant search**, **UC base layer** with fixed scale in frontend with NC images, seed/map search in frontend
- Lukas: keycloak broken, PostGIS, docu infrastructure, cache invalidation (service worker)
- Christoph: review DB, read architecture, rework dev setup, docker compose cleanup
- Paul: collaborate done, **UC plant layer in progress**, (time line UC)
- Yvonne: Plant Relations
- Markus: architecture part III

## Agenda

- 09:00 welcome
- protokoll: Christoph
- take a step forward
- live event
- goal for Sunday: planting with seeds and relations
- Changelogs
- dev:
  - branch off from latest master
  - daily pushes/progress reports on issues
  - draft PR review
  - weekly report in ChangeLogs
  - create follow-up issues about obvious problems **before** requesting my review
  - `package-lock.json`
- documentation first
- have a look through architecture
  - keycloak data
- focus meetings: DB/API Thursday 15; Thursday 9:30
- [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- outlook

## Changelogs

**Please push progress important changes devs should know, e.g. decisions, in items with syntax `- change _(Your Name)_` below:**

- KeyCloak: users with name `test*` removed, please use same nickname as in Nextcloud _(Markus Raab)_
- Clarification: Polygon relates to map, even if it is shown in base layer. _(Markus Raab)_
- Problem with Nextcloud CORS configuration:
  Nextcloud has no options to configure the allowed origins for CORS requests.
  There is a plugin to circumvent this problem for some APIs but this plugins is considered unsecure by a Nextcloud Spreed team member.
  It also doesn't work with the Nextcloud Spreed APIs.
  My suggestion is to implement a proxy for setting the correct CORS headers in our backend. _(Samuel Daurer)_
- Items can now only be selected on their corresponding layers. _(Samuel Daurer)_
- Basic chat utils for Nextcloud are introduced in PR #428 in `/features/nextcloud_integration/api/chat.ts` (NOTE: not working in production due to CORS issues) _(Samuel Daurer)_
- Nextcloud image utils not working in production due to CORS issues right now _(Samuel Daurer)_
- Map Creation now includes description, privacy settings and selecting a geographical location. _(Thorben Staufer)_
- A new map will automatically store the creator as its owner through the user data provided by the Keycloak token (in PR #449). _(Thorben Staufer)_
- The map overview page only shows maps created by the currently logged-in user (in PR #449). _(Thorben Staufer)_
- Proposed a DB design for simple layers (layers that either place objects or contain a map-wide configuration) with the plants layer as an example (in PR #427). _(Gabriel Kitzberger & Thorben Staufer)_
- Documentation about backend now in mdbook including auth and how to obtain tokens (PR #412) _(Gabriel Kitzberger)_
- Allow for searching maps by name (PR #414) _(Gabriel Kitzberger)_
- Send changes to the map to other connected clients via Server-Sent Events (PR #404) _(Paul Buschmann & Gabriel Kitzberger)_

## Outlook: Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 16.6.2023**:

- Create a PR that improves error handling (or adds assertions)
- Get current use case (UC) [done](doc/usecases/README.md)
- Break "Talk to buddy" and "Submissions"
- Push at least a short Changelog to the branch meeting_notes/20.06.2023
- Update [sprint plan](https://github.com/orgs/ElektraInitiative/projects/4/)
- Do at least 8 reviews of other PRs in main repo or submissions
- Read architecture available as mdbook, see main README.md Part III
- [Nextcloud](https://cloud.permaplant.net) testing and report to #422

## Outlook: Next Tasks

To be done until **Friday 16.6.2023**:

- Felix: cargo faster, make doc, (mdbook deployment, pre-commit, emails)
- Gabriel: **API+DB for plants (Tuesday)**, **UC auth**, **UC map search**, **Plant layer: relations (API)**
- Christoph: docmentation regarding PermaplanT setup, import of relations (in scraper), review DB
- Samuel: NC images: proxy&error handling, decision, (heatmap frontend), (landing page: (1) 2x chat msg, (2) chat window (3) gallery, components documentation, NC strukturen (circles, gruppen))
- Moritz: **UC plant search**, **UC base layer** with fixed scale in frontend with NC images, **seed/map search in frontend**
- Lukas: keycloak broken, PostGIS, docu infrastructure
- Thorben: map loading map.tsx, **API+DB for plants+maps docu**, **UC map creation done**, (membership application)
- Paul: **UC plant layer**, time line UC
- Markus: end-user docu

## Meeting Notes

- Besprechung Live Treffen, Informationen in LivePermaplanTreffen.pdf
- Portable Device mitnehmen, damit wir uns Permaplant in der Praxis anschauen können.
- Handgroßen flachen Stein mitnehmen, falls jemand einen hat.
- Ziel bis Sonntag 18.6.2023: Seedplanting umgesetzt damit wir die ersten Pflanzen platzieren können.
- Besprechung Sprint
- Thorben: Map creation Frontend->Backend funktioniert, Backend->Frontend fehlt noch.
- Samuel: Basic Component documentation, hat dokumentiert womit er sich zurechtgefunden hat. Einige sind noch offen.
- Felix: CI, trotz erwarteter Verbesserungen keine Veränderungen in den Laufzeiten festgestellt wurden. Ein Problem besteht darin, dass Cargo Daten erneut herunterlädt. Gabriel erklärte, dass dies bei Rust üblich ist, wenn man in Release baut, da es immer alles neu baut. Als Lösungsvorschlag wurde vorgeschlagen, PRs im Debug-Modus zu bauen und nur den Master im Release-Modus zu bauen. Der gesamte CI-Zyklus dauert derzeit 30 Minuten. Gabriel plant, sich das genauer anzusehen, befürchtet jedoch, dass beim Bauen im Release-Modus keine großen Verbesserungen möglich sind, möglicherweise könnte Caching helfen.
- Lukas: Keylock, braucht hilfe wegen eines caching problems vom Frontendteam, Markus sagt wir sollten uns erst später damit beschäftigen, erst wenn wir eine stabile release haben, da noch nicht klar ist was die requirments sind.
- Christoph: plan doc/backend/01setup.md issue fertig machen. Setup Script is outofScope, Leute sollen das system selbst aufsetzen.

- Markus ist aufgefallen: Bei einen PR das man den letzten Master nimmt. Darauf achten das "The PR is rebased with current master." gilt. Draft PR sind ein Draft, wenn Markus um info gefragt wird, bitte genaue Frage stellen.
- Hinweiß: Immer ganz schnell issues erzeugen, es ist verwirrend wenn etwas übrig ist. Herauszufinden wie es geht kostet viel Zeit. Klare Kommunikation was da ist, ist wichtig. Wenn es Probleme gibt, erstellt Issues.
- Pause 10:05-10:10
- Architecure Guidlines beachten, keine Workarounds. Bei Problemen issues erstellen.
- Wir implementieren gerade 06runtime.html->planting. Toll wenn das bis Sonntag 18.6.2023 funktioniert.
- Christoph soll Guidlines->Database überarbeiten.

- Wie gehts weiter. Am Do können wir uns treffen wo es um DB+API geht.
- Bei Terminumfragen sollen bitte alle Antworten.
- Error Handling beachten, es soll keine "Silent Errors" mehr geben. User sollen wissen, wenn etwas nicht funktioniert hat, und warum. (Siehe UI guidlines)
- Wegen LiveMeeting machen wir eine Woche Pause mit Buddy-System und Submissions.

- Architekture ganz durchlesen für alle.
- Starker Fokus auf Use Cases. Am Sonntag wollen wir pflanzen platzieren beim Live Treffen.
- Solange wir das nicht haben, ist es schwierig weitere UseCases zu finden.
- Felix: Schnellere Deployments wären hilfreich.
- Gabriel: Plantlayer API+DB fertigbekommen, Heatmap gleicher PR?
- Christoph: Scrapper DB Relations, import of relation in scrapper. RUST Code nachschauen für entites, Documentation Database schema aktuallsieren. Review machen wo änderungen sind.
- Samuel: Nextcloud requests sollen in Production funktioneren. Fehler sollen angezeigt werden.
- Moritz: Base Layer und Plant Search fertig machen. Ziel bis Freitag fertig machen. Es sind primär noch Detailfragen zu klären.
- Thorben: Fokus: Laden der Map/Maploading.
