# Meeting 2024-01-29

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Jannis
- Christoph
- Moritz

Ill:

- Daniel (Protocol done)

## Buddies

- Moritz & Christoph
- Daniel & Jannis

## Agenda

- 09:00 start
- (Yvonne) Permakultur Prinzipien
- Protocol: Jannis
- focus groups
  - e2e (with Adi, maybe Moritz in the beginning)
  - gis (with Karsten)
- buddy talk topic
  - last week: Permakultur Prinzipien
  - next week: SQL decision
- shadings issues to be created:
  - [ ] plants should be on top of heatmap
  - [ ] yellow/red colors (Christoph)
  - [ ] PermanenT deep shade probably not need
  - [ ] legend inconsistent to `backend/src/model/entity.rs`
  - [ ] correct positioning of heatmap
- [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)
- 80/20 rule for thesis
- raw SQL decision:
  - formatting -> sqlfluff?
  - testing of SQL?
  - squash migrations before releases?
- improvement of (API) documentation
- architecture:
  - security guidelines
  - [modification, creation (all elements)](https://issues.permaplant.net/1168)
- (again) bad availability on Wednesday

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 2.2.2024**:

0. vote for meeting https://nextcloud.markus-raab.org/nextcloud/index.php/apps/polls/vote/29
1. buddy talk topic: SQL decision
2. do/update [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)
3. approve meeting PR [#1157](https://pull.permaplant.net/1174/files),
   check for [requested reviews](https://pulls.permaplant.net/?q=is%3Aopen+user-review-requested%3A%40me)

If possible/needed do:

- create/update issues/tests (behavior driven) as needed for future tasks
- get current issues, PRs and use cases (UC) [done](../usecases/README.md)
- do reviews of PRs in main repo and submissions
- submit a (short) text in submissions

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 2.2.2024**:

- Daniel: notes
- Jannis: timeline, drawing layer, tutorial for layer creation (creation/update metadata + what interface should any layer have)
- Christoph: db docu, heatmap, meeting
- Moritz: finish shade layer PR, grid, (label sizes)
- Yvonne: Testen, check Shading
- Markus:

## Meeting Notes

- Karsten - new potential PermaplanT developer who is an expert in PostGIS.
- Topic specific focus group meetings with select members (selected by topic).
- Buddy talks are meant to encourage engagement in the group. The weekly meeting shouldn't be the only contact between PermaplanT members.
- Guideline to prefer batch operations (like in plantings) for Atomic map operations e.g for drawings. We need guidelines for what a new layer API should always include: (cration/update metadata, needed CRUD endpoints).
- Frontend renders some components (like timeline) very slowly (unnecessary work by component), in the case of the timeline this will be fixed, other issues need further investigations.
- breaks should be 13-15minutes
