# Meeting 2024-02-05

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Daniel (Protocol done, cannot come 12.2)
- Jannis (Protocol done)
- Christoph

Not here:

- Moritz

## Buddies

- Moritz & Christoph
- Daniel & Jannis: timeline
- Jannis & Christoph: review backend, who will focus on what?

## Agenda

- 09:00 start
- Protocol: Christoph
- report from focus group GIS (with Karsten)
- going forward with [brushes](https://issues.permaplant.net/1151)
- buddy talk topic
  - last week: SQL decision
  - next week: choose your own
- focus group today 17:00 e2e (with Adi, maybe Moritz in the beginning)
- shadings issues to be created:
  - [ ] coding quality
  - [ ] plants should be on top of heatmap
  - [ ] yellow/red colors (Christoph)
  - [ ] PermanenT deep shade probably not need
  - [ ] legend inconsistent to `backend/src/model/entity.rs`
  - [ ] correct positioning of heatmap
- experimental setups
- DB documentation
- cleanup branches
  - 1168-test
- raw SQL decision:
  - formatting -> sqlfluff?
  - testing of SQL?
  - squash migrations before releases?
- [layers vs. groups performance](https://github.com/konvajs/konva/issues/1713)
- [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 9.2.2024**:

1. buddy talk topic: see above
2. do/update [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)
3. approve meeting PR [#1157](https://pull.permaplant.net/1177/files),
   check for [requested reviews](https://pulls.permaplant.net/?q=is%3Aopen+user-review-requested%3A%40me)

If possible/needed do:

- create/update issues/tests (behavior driven) as needed for future tasks
- get current issues, PRs and use cases (UC) [done](../usecases/README.md)
- do reviews of PRs in main repo and submissions
- submit a (short) text in submissions

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 9.2.2024**:

- Jannis: finish timeline, (drawing layer), tutorial for layer creation (creation/update metadata + what interface should any layer have)
- Daniel: notes, finish timeline, polygon libraries/algorithms
- Christoph: scraper, db docu (+issue db comments), heatmap benchmark+color scale, meeting
- Moritz: finish shade layer PR, grid, (label sizes)
- Yvonne: heatmap concept
- Markus:

## Meeting Notes

Report from focus group GISCall with Karsten, a highly-experienced GIS expert.
Suggested raster files but had concerns in the same time.
General GIS approach: Open layers or similar for frontend, map server for backend.
Karsten is willing to answer further questions concerning GIS and PostGIS.

Brushes:
Vorab auswählen welcher Brush verwendet wird. Überlappende Polygone vom gleichen Typ sollen sich vereinen. Zeichnet man mit einem Brush von einem anderen Typ, überzeichnet man alte Polygone. Ein bestehendes Polygon muss selektiert werden um es erweitern zu können.
Ob und in welcher Auflösung gezeichnete Polygone geglättet werden, hängt von den verwendeten Libraries/Funktionen ab (Entscheidung aufgeschoben). Performantester Algorithmus soll genommen werden.
Aktueller Ansatz: Wir bleiben dabei Polygone ans Backend zu schicken.
Zwei zusätzliche Endpoints: Polygone addieren (union); Polygone subtrahieren (set difference)

Daniel und Jannis reden im Buddy Talk über die Timeline
Jannis und Christoph reden im Buddy Talk über Aufgabenverteilung/Fokus im Backend

Christoph: Überprüfe Performance der Heatmap mit ~10.000 gut platzierten Shadings

Mit anderen Communities im Kontakt bleiben: Fragen stellen / Probleme melden (konva.js; diesel)
