# Meeting 08.04.2024

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Daniel (protocol done)
- Christoph (protocol done)
- Moritz (protocol done)
- Jannis (protocol done)
- Lukas (protocol done)
- Filip
- Andrei (Scrum Master)

## Buddies

- Daniel & Andrei
- Moritz & Christoph
- Jannis & Lukas

## Agenda

- 09:00 start
- protocol: Filip
- netidee.at
- GitLab Tuwien migration
- next release
- very well-written backend issues:
  - local backend tests
  - compilation times #1210 (please create issues first)
- content:
  - drawing layer names (several ones): https://pull.permaplant.net/1236/files
- docu available https://doc.permaplant.net/dev/
- branches:
  - new dev branch
  - rename to mr.permaplant.net
  - dev.permaplant.net rename to master.permaplant.net
- scrum with Andrei:
  - issues
  - reviews -> later
  - (manual) e2e tests -> later Christoph+Filip
- last sprint before release
- create issues:
  - rework notification system (Jannis+Andrei)
  - Jannis: raw SQL
- [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 12.04.2024**:

- update your README.md in submissions repo
- buddy talk: documentation improvements
- approve meeting PR [#1233](https://pull.permaplant.net/1233/files)
- request and approve for requested reviews [requested reviews](https://pulls.permaplant.net/?q=is%3Aopen+user-review-requested%3A%40me)
- do/update [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 12.04.2024**:

- Filip: first issue: deploy docu, test migrations
- Andrei: create issues, write about dates for scrum meeting
- Daniel: finish timeline, meeting refactor layers
- Jannis: creation times reviews missing, tutorial for layer creation (creation/update metadata + what interface should any layer have), review DB Doku from Christoph, notification profilen, TISS Text, how to name branches
- Moritz: investigate how many layers?, group vs. layer new PR, meeting refactoring
- Christoph: TISS Text, SQL heatmap benchmark, how to add column in tables, hierarchy, documentation decision update
- Lukas: review PRs, fix first issue (assigned)
- Yvonne: find manually inserted data in CSV

## Meeting Notes

- Idea: apply for [found](https://www.netidee.at/) with PermaplanT. One meeting to think about how we apply. Would be 60 a second video per person, to see each team member in the team. If interested write an email.
- Migration to GitLab: everyone can log in already. This week Issues & PRs in Github.
- Release: only small bugs missing.
- Two branches for future: stable master branches with releases (just small bug fixes) + development branch (bigger features, most things) (+ small feature branches stay the same and merge into dev branch)
- Andrei: part of the meetings for Reviews to make working together more efficient in near future.
- PR: Small summary to PRs to help Reviewers. Mention what you did as Reviewer.
- Lukas: clean up branches, that don't provide any use.
