# Meeting 15.04.2024

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Christoph
- Moritz
- Lukas
- Daniel
- Jannis

Not here:

- Filip

Sick:

- Andrei (Scrum Master)

## Buddies

- Daniel & Andrei
- Moritz & Christoph
- Jannis & Lukas

## Agenda

- 09:00 start
- protocol: Daniel
- release v0.4.0 done
  - rebase PRs
- GitLab Tuwien migration
- hierarchy:
  - automatic hierarchy based on unique name
  - usually no new properties or plants (apart from adding to CSV)
  - treffen: Christoph und Lukas
- https://github.com/supabase/index_advisor
- scrum with Andrei:
  - issues
  - reviews -> later
  - (manual) e2e tests -> later Christoph+Filip
- create issues:
  - rework notification system (Jannis+Andrei)
  - Jannis: raw SQL
- [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 12.04.2024**:

- update TISS.txt in submissions repo
- buddy talk: scoping with mistakes
- approve meeting PR [#1254](https://pull.permaplant.net/1254/files)
- request and approve for requested reviews [requested reviews](https://pulls.permaplant.net/?q=is%3Aopen+user-review-requested%3A%40me)
- do/update [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 12.04.2024**:

- Daniel: finish timeline, drawing
- Filip: GitLab
- Jannis: creation times, create issues: (1) tutorial for layer creation (creation/update metadata + (2) what interface should any layer have), (3) notification profilen (4) drawing layer db design, (5) unify layer design
- Christoph: SQL heatmap benchmark, hierarchy PR
- Lukas: documenting how to create+test layers, create issues: investigate performance (profile)
- Moritz: heatmap rebase, meeting refactoring, issues restructure, write if all stale branches can be removed

- Andrei: create issues

## Meeting Notes

- christoph asked if properties should be able to get overwritten in child ranks of plants -> will be discussed in seperate meeting. Christoph and Lukas should attend
- drawing layer PR will be created so that handling can be tested
- synchronization of nextcloud images has to be implemented
- we shouldn't have to many different tasks in progress.
