# Meeting 2024-01-08

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Daniel (Protocol done)
- Jannis (Protocol done)
- Christoph
- Moritz

Nicht da:

- Samuel

## Buddies

- Moritz & Samuel
- Daniel & Jannis & Christoph

## Agenda

- 09:00 3 questions for year 2024
- welcome: Christoph
- Protocol: Christoph
- Diagrams in Bachelor Thesis
- [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 12.01.2024**:

1. buddy talk topic: improvement of documentation
2. do/update [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)
3. approve meeting PR [#1129](https://pull.permaplant.net/1129/files),
   check for [requested reviews](https://pulls.permaplant.net/?q=is%3Aopen+user-review-requested%3A%40me)

If possible/needed do:

- create/update issues/tests (behavior driven) as needed for future tasks
- get current issues, PRs and use cases (UC) [done](../usecases/README.md)
- do reviews of PRs in main repo and submissions
- submit a (short) text in submissions

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 12.01.2024**:

- Daniel: drawing layer backend, create layers and label layer issues
- Moritz: create shade layer UC issues (8-edges, size selectable, overlap), (group instead of layers)
- Jannis: review heatmap, notes+drawing layer
- Christoph: architektur, review heatmap+db docu
- Samuel: reviews, help others, documentation of unit tests

## Meeting notes

- Drawing Layer: Double click to finish bezier/polygon
- Überlegungen über Refactoring der gemeinsamen Fähigkeiten der Layer
- Koordination mit Backend: Evtl. alles als Geometry/Polygon speichern, jedenfalls keine neuen Textrepräsentationen erfinden
- Moritz: Shading Layer, Diskussion über Brush vs. Polygon
- Jannis, Christoph: Heatmap PR reviewen
