# Meeting 25.03.2024

> next meeting 2.4.2024 9:00 (without Jannis)

## Attendees

- Markus
- Daniel (protocol done)
- Jannis (protocol done)
- Christoph (protocol done)
- Moritz
- Andrei
- Lukas
- Yvonne

## Buddies

- Daniel & Andrei
- Moritz & Christoph
- Jannis & Lukas

## Agenda

- 09:00 start
- new members
- welcome
- buddy talks: first contact
- protocol: Moritz
- create issues: Andrei
- new issues use cases
  - heatmap as normal layer (Moritz)
  - heatmap and relation layer has same content (Daniel&Andrei)
    - (bi)annual plants
  - additional layer concept (Daniel)
  - read-only non-member (Andrei)
    - no plant data should leak to non-member
- GitHub vs. GitLab
- decisions:
  - rework notification system (Jannis+Andrei)
  - Jannis: [move away from utopia](https://issues.permaplant.net/1181)
  - Christoph+Jannis: [DB documentation](https://issues.permaplant.net/1185), verlinkung
  - Jannis: raw SQL
- TISS texts review
- Scrum:
  - reviews
  - PRs closed
  - (manual) e2e tests
- better diffs: https://difftastic.wilfred.me.uk/
- [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 29.03.2024**:

- buddy talk: first contact, dev setup
- approve meeting PR [#1220](https://pull.permaplant.net/1220/files)
- create decision PRs to start discussion
- 2x review [requested reviews](https://pulls.permaplant.net/?q=is%3Aopen+user-review-requested%3A%40me)
- do/update [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 29.03.2024**:

- Andrei: copy&paste issues, scrum
- Daniel: finish timeline, drawing layer first version, finish keybinding
- Jannis: creation times reviews missing, drawing layer, tutorial for layer creation (creation/update metadata + what interface should any layer have), review DB Doku from Christoph, notification profilen, TISS Text
- Moritz: group vs. layer new PR
- Christoph: TISS Text, scraper overrides+German names, Gabriel Thesis, SQL heatmap benchmark, how to add column in tables
- Lukas: crop rotation design, review PRs

## Meeting Notes

Andrei will help to improve our workflows.
He has significant experience in SCRUM-teams and relevant certifications.

A poll was held to decide whether the Project should migrate to Gitlab over Github.
The results were inconclusive, most teammembers votet "both are fine".

We still need to decide whether the heatmap should be exposed as a "normal layer", or if it should stay as is.

An extra meeting is needed for the "relation-layer".
It will show additional textual information related to plant relations, that is not covered by the heat map (Daniel & Andre will be assigned).
An incomplete use case already exists.

The joice of important libraries, that are not easily replaced, should be justified in a decision document.

The words "model" and "entity" have been used to refer to the same concept.
From this point point onwards only "entity" should be used.
