# Meeting 02.04.2024

> next meeting 8.4.2024 9:00

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Daniel (protocol done)
- Christoph (protocol done)
- Moritz (protocol done)
- Lukas
- Andrei (Scrum Master)
- Filip

cannot come:

- Jannis (protocol done)

## Buddies

- Daniel & Andrei
- Moritz & Christoph
- Jannis & Lukas

## Agenda

- 09:00 start
- welcome Filip (CI)
- protocol: Lukas
- GitLab Tuwien migration
- upcoming next release (Filip+Adi)
- content:
  - drawing layer names (several ones): https://pull.permaplant.net/1236/files
- scrum with Andrei:
  - reviews
  - PRs closed
  - (manual) e2e tests
- create issues:
  - refactor layers (Daniel+Moritz) in heatmap branch
  - rework notification system (Jannis+Andrei)
  - Jannis: raw SQL
- TISS texts second round
- [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 05.04.2024**:

- buddy talk: dev setup
- GitLab Tuwien migration: do a login on https://git.tuwien.ac.at
- approve meeting PR [#1233](https://pull.permaplant.net/1233/files)
- requested reviews [requested reviews](https://pulls.permaplant.net/?q=is%3Aopen+user-review-requested%3A%40me)
- do/update [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 05.04.2024**:

- Andrei: create copy&paste issues, scrum setup, first issues to work on
- Daniel: refactor layers, finish keybinding, (finish timeline)
- Jannis: creation times reviews missing, tutorial for layer creation (creation/update metadata + what interface should any layer have), review DB Doku from Christoph, notification profilen, TISS Text
- Moritz: group vs. layer new PR, finish shading layer
- Christoph: TISS Text, scraper overrides+German names, SQL heatmap benchmark, how to add column in tables, hierarchy
- Lukas: crop rotation design, review PRs, fix first issue (assigned)

## Meeting Notes
