# Meeting 2023-01-22

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Daniel
- Jannis
- Christoph
- Moritz

## Buddies

- Moritz & Christoph
- Daniel & Jannis

## Agenda

- 09:00 Permakultur Prinzipien
- Protocol: Daniel
- shadings tests
- release
- buddy talk topic
  - last week: improvement of (API) documentation
  - next week: Permakultur Prinzipien
- architecture:
  - docu and code should always fit together! enum descriptions etc.
  - security guidelines
  - [modification, creation (all elements)](https://issues.permaplant.net/1168)
- thx for doing Tasks for Everyone"
  - clarify as much as possible in advance using issues
  - split issues frontend/backend
- [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 26.01.2024**:

1. buddy talk topic: Permakultur Prinzipien
2. do/update [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)
3. approve meeting PR [#1157](https://pull.permaplant.net/1157/files),
   check for [requested reviews](https://pulls.permaplant.net/?q=is%3Aopen+user-review-requested%3A%40me)

If possible/needed do:

- create/update issues/tests (behavior driven) as needed for future tasks
- get current issues, PRs and use cases (UC) [done](../usecases/README.md)
- do reviews of PRs in main repo and submissions
- submit a (short) text in submissions

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 26.01.2024**:

- Daniel: endpoint requirements, notes
- Jannis: notes, API refactoring, doc/decisions/backend_orm_crate.md, (timeline)
- Christoph: landingpage, spread&height, review heatmap+db docu
- Moritz: group instead of layers, create shade layer UC issues (8-edges, size selectable, overlap)
- Yvonne: Shading Testen
- Markus: Release

## Meeting Notes
