# Meeting 2023-02-12

## Attendees

- Markus
- Yvonne
- Christoph

Not here:

- Moritz
- Daniel
- Jannis

## Buddies

- Moritz & Christoph
- Daniel & Jannis: timeline
- Jannis & Christoph: review backend, who will focus on what?

## Agenda

- 09:00 start
- Protocol: Christoph
- buddy talk
- feedback
- new pictures Yvonne
- integer for plant spread
- [move away from utopia](https://issues.permaplant.net/1181)
- minimal env vars for backend
- DB documentation
- [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)

## Open Points

- what to write in release notes (migrations, new scraper data)
- [layers vs. groups performance](https://github.com/konvajs/konva/issues/1713)
- raw SQL decision:
  - formatting -> sqlfluff?
  - testing of SQL?
  - squash migrations before releases?
- cleanup branches
  - 1168-test
- shadings issues to be created:
  - [ ] coding quality
  - [ ] plants should be on top of heatmap
  - [ ] yellow/red colors (Christoph)
  - [ ] PermanenT deep shade probably not need
  - [ ] legend inconsistent to `backend/src/model/entity.rs`
  - [ ] correct positioning of heatmap
  - [ ] heatmap shown as layer?

## Tasks for Everyone

To be done until **Friday 16.2.2024**:

1. buddy talk topic: see above
2. do/update [sprint plan](https://project.permaplant.net)
3. approve meeting PR [#1187](https://pull.permaplant.net/1187/files),
   check for [requested reviews](https://pulls.permaplant.net/?q=is%3Aopen+user-review-requested%3A%40me)

If possible/needed do:

- create/update issues/tests (behavior driven) as needed for future tasks
- get current issues, PRs and use cases (UC) [done](../usecases/README.md)
- do reviews of PRs in main repo and submissions
- submit a (short) text in submissions

## Individual Tasks

To be done until **Friday 16.2.2024**:

- Jannis: finish timeline, (drawing layer), tutorial for layer creation (creation/update metadata + what interface should any layer have)
- Christoph: scraper overrides+German names, heatmap benchmark, how to add entry
- Yvonne: heatmap concept
- Markus:

not here:

- Daniel: notes, finish timeline, polygon libraries/algorithms
- Moritz: finish shade layer PR, grid, (label sizes)

## Meeting Notes

DB Docu: Zumindest eine Entity ausprobieren; Migration etc. erstellen; eventuell alles in eine Migration
Tutorial um eine Spalte hinzuzuf端gen (welche Stellen m端ssen angepasst werden)
Guidelines f端r DB Documentation

Update validation guidelines: Wo sollen welche Checks / Validations durchgef端hrt werden (Rust vs Database Constraints)
